[< Previous page: Preface](preface.md) &nbsp; | &nbsp; [Next page: 2. Data Processing Basics >](chapter2/2.data_processing.md)

# 1. Introduction
Logistics in English originally refers to logistics in the military, including the study of a series of activities such as production, storage, procurement, transportation, and distribution of materials. Modern logistics integrates a series of other disciplines such as computers, management operations research, economics, geography, etc. The space of research ranges from a warehouse, a terminal, to a factory, a park, and even to a city, a country and even the entire earth.

## 1.1. Logistics network planning and modeling
Each activity in logistics is inseparable from the transportation network it uses. Logistics network planning is the planning and management of the transportation network for logistics activities. This is a strategic level issue for relevant enterprises and government departments. In the past, due to technical limitations, analyzing and solving such problems mostly relied on experience. However, with the advancement of big data, information technology, artificial intelligence, etc., the analysis of network planning problems can rely on data to establish mathematical models, and then analyze and solve the mathematical models to propose decision-making solutions. This book introduces the basics of data processing and analysis in detail in [Chapter 2] (chapter2/2.data_processing.md), and subsequent chapters specifically discuss the corresponding models and algorithms according to problem classification.

## 1.2. Problem classification and related model algorithms
From a topological perspective, logistics network planning problems can be divided into plane facility location selection, transportation path planning and network traffic distribution from point to line and network. The data, models and algorithms used are as follows. Specific details can be found in the corresponding chapters:

|Problem Classification |Required Data |Model Classification |Algorithm Design |
|---|---|---|---|
|[Planar Facility Location Choice](chapter3/3.location_choice.md) |Location information, demand information |Continuous approximation model, discrete location model |Center of gravity method, disk algorithm, Lagrangian relaxation|
|[Freight Route Planning](chapter4/4.route_planning.md) |Same as above, spatial network topology |Shortest path model, TSP model, VRP model |Prime-Dual principle, labeling method, column generation|
|[Network Flow Assignment](chapter5/5.flow_assignment.md) |Same as above, cost information, market information |Network flow model, spatial price equilibrium |Benders decomposition, Frank-Wolfe algorithm|

The last chapter of this book introduces another general model construction method in complex environments: [Simulation Modeling] (chapter6/6.simulation.md). This method is intuitive and close to reality, and is very suitable for direct use in production practice.

## 1.3. Use of related software
This book mainly uses the built-in <a href="../.." target="_blank">MicroCity Web</a> to perform programming and result demonstration for data analysis and model solving. The software required for editing and producing files such as data, maps, and 3D models will be prompted in the text. If you have basic programming experience, there is no need to study MicroCity Web in particular, just follow the progress of the chapters and practice step by step. If you skip reading this book or want to have an overview of MicroCity Web immediately, you can read the [Software Guide] (appendix/soft_guide.md) in the appendix.

## 1.4. Practical cases
This chapter ends with a simple practical case: There is a community with many residents living on average. Assume that a supermarket is opened in this community. How to choose a location to minimize the total distance from all villagers.
In the code below, we first load the map data (map.geojson), then traverse the boundary points of the community, calculate the coordinate mean and draw the supermarket location. Run the code below and try to understand the logic through code comments.
<iframe src="../../#/H4sIAAAAAAAACu3TQWsjIRQH8Jz9FK+9dNIdg7aZCSzksIfC9lb6DZzRTUytBjXbpJ9+cZKS0lJyCmXh/0OQpz7ekxn7oM3ozIQQom2nZZazRryfB62YjuS0FbKd3TYzOZI3jWhK3rkbKzYpqzgSIqvYKedW6Ytzp/b/U5w/ROszpRytX7B1CarL38a5UFNemmguLseMcf5La1Ikr+W1pH7TGcqh7FPqjTfMhV45Ct2K5vuVidI6dKvqqgvbqzHj/M47FRdmyBnyG8r22SQWutXPZHLqlTNVU1MZQ8V7b7NVzr7uk2LIKtvg6a+KVnXurei2pl1NrzQnUQ+Dcf5ovDbx2B8pr6lfmv6J/oRIa7VJ+7WUw5q9LK07HJzEIbMakw6MiPb3/lyaiLY0py39IDGRJdzRnHbHkPPHknS8b1k8XDWGXB26HjPj9Xd+/7VKZ/+jT71/IcTH938zw/sHAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAADjpH8cxRfUAKAAA" width="100%" height="600"></iframe>

## 1.5. Exercise
Based on the above case, consider the actual situation. This community is relatively long and narrow in the east-west direction, so one supermarket may not be able to cover all residents well. If two supermarkets are built, how should the location be chosen?

[< Previous page: Preface](preface.md) &nbsp; | &nbsp; [Next page: 2. Data Processing Basics >](chapter2/2.data_processing.md)